 Enforcement Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS ...
Comment
Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS). U.S. Department of Commerce. Dwayne Hayward. Special Agent .... sentenced to sentenced to six months in prison and ...
Office of Export Enforcement Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) U.S. Department of Commerce Dwayne Hayward Special Agent 
Los Angeles Field Office 1-949-251-9001 
Who Are We? The enforcement arm of The Department of Commerce, Bureau of Industry and Security (BIS) 
Office of Export Enforcement • The Role of OEE • Statutes and Penalties • Case Examples • Questions and Answers 
Advancing U.S. National Security by keeping the most sensitive goods out of the most dangerous hands. 
OEE Enforcement Priorities • Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD) Proliferation • Terrorism and State Sponsorship of Terror • Diversions to Unauthorized Military End-Users 
Export Enforcement’s Mission • Protect National Security and Foreign Policy Goals • Prevention and Detection in Partnership with Industry • Investigation and Prosecution 
• Domestic and International Law Enforcement Cooperation 
OEE Regional Field Offices 
Chicago 
Boston New York Washington 
San Jose Los Angeles 
Dallas Houston Miami 
Education Component of OEE’s Mission The key to OEE’s mission is educating the exporting community about preventing violations and dealing with exporter responsibilities under the Export Administration Regulations through:  Company Outreach Visits  Seminars  Workshops 
Preventive Measures • Check exporters and customers prior to issuing license 
• Review Shipper’s Export Declarations • Review Visa Applications 
• Verify en-users and enduses after shipment • Use watch list to screen license applications 
• Detentions/Seizure 
• Issue Temporary Denial Orders • Educate Exporters - Outreach 
Investigations and Sanctions Investigations: • Criminal • Administrative Sanctions: • Criminal fines and imprisonment • Civil fines and penalties (i.e. denial of export privileges, exclusion from practice, etc.) 
Criminal Penalties • “Willful Violations” - $1 Million fine for individuals and/or -Ten (10) – Twenty (20) years imprisonment -$1 Million or five times the value of the exports involved for firms 
ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES CIVIL AUTHORITIES • Export Administration Regulations – TITLE 15, C.F.R. Part 764 CIVIL SANCTIONS • Fines: $250,000/violation • Denial of Export Privileges • Revocation of Export Licenses • Exclusion from practice 
Temporary Denial Orders (TDO) • Department of Commerce is the only agency authorized to issue TDO’s • Designed to halt imminent violations • Warns exporters and consignees not to do business with these individuals and firms 
• Valid for 180 days and issued on ex parte basis • Renewable 
Case Examples: FREIGHT FORWARDERS 
Scenario 1 From March 2002 through August 2007, a global freight forwarding company exported over 300 shipments with final destinations, listed on the air waybills, of Iran or Sudan or Syria without government approved export licenses 
FF DEFENSE VALID? • Because there is No Power of Attorney or Written Agreement, the FF is NOT responsible for proper EEI/SED filing in the AES • Merely following the Shipper’s Letters of Instructions (SLI) 
DPWN Holdings (USA) Formerly known as DHL The company agreed to pay a civil penalty of $9,444,744 and hire an unaffiliated third-party consultant to conduct external audits of all of DHL’s exports and re-exports to Iran, Syria and Sudan from March 2007 through December 2011. DHL had to provide the audit reports to BIS. This agreement proves that all parties to an export transaction, including agents (forwarders) are required to comply with the EAR. 
Scenario 2 The manager of a Netherlands based freight forwarding company arranged for shipments of parts for Boeing 747 and C-130 aircraft to be exported with an ultimate destination of Iran without valid licensing from OFAC. 
The attempt to ship without the OFAC license was discovered by BIS agents and a Temporary Denial Order (TDO) was subsequently issued. 
How much should the forwarding company be penalized? The manager and co-conspirator directed a New York freight forwarding company affiliated with the Netherlands Freight Forwarding Company to transport U.S. origin goods to New York on behalf of the company subject to the TDO. The U.S. origin goods were then forwarded to the Netherlands Freight Forwarding Company, which would then transship the goods to Iran. 
How much should the forwarding company be penalized? In an e-mail discovered by agents, Davis noted that: “99% of these goods were destined to be send [sic] to Teheran [sic]/Iran, which was and still is a very difficult destination due to political reasons. We have handled shipments to Teheran [sic] for various customers who had to shut down their operation because they were doing business with Teheran [sic]/Iran and inspite [sic] of the risk we take we always handled your shipments in a good manner.” 
RESULTS Ulrich Davis, 50, a Dutch citizen of Pumerend, The Netherlands, pleaded guilty before a U.S. District Judge to an Information charging him with conspiracy to defraud the United States through the violation of a U.S. Department of Commerce Temporary Denial Order (“TDO”). 
PENALTY 
The Sales and Business Development executive was sentenced to sentenced to six months in prison and ordered to pay a fine of $2,000. 
Enforcement Statistics FY2013 
FY2012 
o 
52 criminal convictions 
o 
27 criminal convictions 
o 
$21.7+ million in criminal fines 
o 
$11.78 million in criminal fines 
& forfeitures 
and forfeitures 
o 
881 months of imprisonment 
o 
187 months of imprisonment 
o 
71 administrative cases 
o 
49 administrative cases 
o 
$6.5+M in administrative 
o 
$7.3M in administrative penalties 
penalties 
OFFICE OF EXPORT ENFORCEMENT Hotline 1-800-424-2980 For more information or to receive regular email updates, please visit our website at: www.bis.doc.gov 
SHARE INFORMATION ANTHONY LEVEY SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE 
RICHARD WEIR ASSISTANT SPECIAL AGENT IN CHARGE LOS ANGELES FIELD OFFICE 1-949-251-9001 Anthony.Levey@bis.doc.gov Richard.Weir@bis.doc.gov 
Comments 
© 2016 1PDF.NET, Inc.
